---
type: mina
title: MINA 2.2.x vs MINA 2.1.x
---

# 2.2.x vs 2.1.x differences

The **SSL/TLS** handling has been totally rewritten in **MINA 2.2**. This has an impact in many areas.

## Removal of the SslFilter.DISABLE_ENCRYPTION_ONCE attribute

This attribute was used in previous **MINA** versions to insure that we can send some clear text message to the remote peer while establishing the TLS connection when using the **startTLS** command.

The idea is that the **startTLS** command is send by an application (a **LDAP** client, for instance), which tells the server it should establish the **SSL/TLS** layer. But the problem is that the server should be able to inform the clinet that the **SSL/TLS** layer is up and running, in clear text, which is not possible as the **SSL/TLS** layer is already fonctionning...

This kind of chicken/egg problem was solved by giving the opportunity to the **SSL/TLS** layer to send back the **startTLS** response to the client in clear text, assuming it's the first server's message. A kind of a hack.

In **MINA 2.2**, this attribute has been removed and replaced by either a filter to be added, or by encapsulating the message that should not be encrypted into an instance that implements the **DisableEncryptWriteRequest** interface.

Typically, in **Apache Directory**, we use this filter:


```java
public class StartTlsFilter extends IoFilterAdapter 
{
    /**
     * {@inheritDoc}
     */
    @Override
    public void filterWrite( NextFilter nextFilter, IoSession session, WriteRequest writeRequest ) throws Exception 
    {
        if ( writeRequest.getOriginalMessage() instanceof StartTlsResponse )
        {
            // We need to bypass the SslFilter
            IoFilterChain chain = session.getFilterChain();
            
            for ( IoFilterChain.Entry entry : chain.getAll() )
            {
                IoFilter filter = entry.getFilter();
                
                if ( filter instanceof SslFilter )
                {
                    entry.getNextFilter().filterWrite( session, writeRequest );
                }
            }
        }
        else
        {
            nextFilter.filterWrite( session, writeRequest );
        }
    }
}

```

As we can see in this piece of code, we check if the message is a **startTLS** response, and if so, we bypass the **SSLFilter**, which leads to the message to be send in clear text.

## Why is it API incompatible ?

The  removal of the **SslFilter.DISABLE_ENCRYPTION_ONCE** attribute make it impossible for application that leverage the **startTLS** command to work, without some code change.


## Migration

This is pretty straightforward :

* Create a filter that bypasses the message that should not be encrypted, or encapsulate it into an inswtance that implements the **DisableEncryptWriteRequest** interface

and that's it !

